Java Notes

JDK stands for Java Development Kit that provides Development Environment that helps us create our Java Program and write our Java Program with ease. JDK is used to compile the Java program and JDK also provides us with development tools like Debugger and many more.  

JDK comes with JRE (Java Runtime Environment) that provides a platform to run and execute our Java Program. Now after compilation, comes execution which is done by JRE.
JVM is the actual tool that is used to execute/run our JAVA program. It(JVM) is embedded in JRE.

"Javac" is  compiler that gives .class file.
Program -> javac compiler -> program.class -> java program
Program is compiled and converted to byte code or as we say .class file format through javac compiler and written as "javac filename.java" which is then executed by JVM present in JRE to convert byte code into machine code by writing "java programname".

Public static void main(String args[]) explanation-
Public is used so that that method is accessible for others as well and also so that jvm when looks for main method it should be able to see main method which is possible only by declaring it to be public.

We can not use a class without creating an object and if we desire to use a class without creating an object then "static" keyword is used. Now with static keyword jvm can directly call the class' main method without creating an object ie classname.main otherwise for methods without static we have to create an object first and then call its functions.

Void is the return type of the main function which is always void
(String args[]) are the arguments passed and that is optional to pass.

What if I declare a file name with different class name. for example I have file saved with First.java and my class name is class Second so there will be no error unless your class name is not public. But once it is public that is if your write "public class Second" javac compiler will throw error of something like "public should be declared in file named Second.java". So it is preferred to write filename same as class name.

What if I remove 'String args[]'? Jvm will throw error at run time saying "main method not found in class First. declare as "public static void main(String[] args)"".